[DOCU-1594 ] Adds documentation for new kong jq plugin (#3212)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/jq/index.md

---

> name: Kong jq

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name: jq
```
I'd avoid putting "Kong" in the plugin name, we don't normally do that for plugins.

Author: Ok, my thinking was that having a plugin named two lowercase letters is odd - @eskibars any preference for the name of this plugin?

Author: k, will update

publisher: Kong Inc.
versions: 0.1.x
beta: true

desc: Transform JSON objects included in API requests or responses using jq programs.
description: |

>   The Kong jq plugin enables arbitrary jq transformations on JSON objects included in API requests or responses.
>   The configuration accepts two sets of options: one for the request and another for the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Kong jq plugin enables arbitrary jq transformations on JSON objects included in API requests or responses.
  
  The configuration accepts two sets of options: one for the request and another for the response.
```
Adding a line break to separate what the plugin does vs how it works.

Author: will update

  For both the request and response, a jq program string can be included, along with some jq option flags

>   and a list of media types. One of the media types must included in the `Content-Type` header for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and a list of media types. One of the configured media types must be included in 
  the `Content-Type` header for
```
Not sure if adding "configured" is accurate, but it feels like that should be the case? That is, you're not just including any from a list, you're including one from the _specific_ list that you configured.

Author: I think configured is a good modifier here - will update

>   the jq program to run (the media type in the `Content-Type` header defaults to `application/json`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the jq program to run. The default media type in the `Content-Type` header is
  `application/json`.
```

Author: will update

>   In the response context, you also have the option to specify a list of status codes, one of which must match the response status code (the response status code defaults to `200`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the response context, you can also specify a list of status codes, one of which must match the response status code. The default response status code is `200`. 
```

Author: will update

  {:.note}
  > **Note:** In the response context the entire body must be buffered to be processed. This requirement also
  implies that the `Content-Length` header will be dropped if present, and the body transferred with chunked encoding.

  See jq's documentation on [Basic filters](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/#Basicfilters) for more information on writing programs with jq.

enterprise: true
type: plugin
categories:
 - transformations

kong_version_compatibility:
    enterprise_edition:
      compatible: 
        - 2.6.x

params:
  name: jq
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  yaml_examples: false
  k8s_examples: false
  konnect_examples: false
  protocols: ["http","https"]
  dbless_compatible:
  config:
    - name: request_jq_program
      required: semi
      datatype: string
      description: |
        The jq program to run on the request body. For example, `.[0] | { "X-Foo": .foo }`. 

>         Either `request_jq_program` or `response_jq_plugin` **must** be included in configuration.

Reviewer: Should label either `request_jq_program` or `response_jq_plugin` as something to use in examples, then do the same for all of its properties.

For example, for this property you could set:
`value_in_examples: .[0] | { "X-Foo": .foo }`

 If you don't want examples _at all_ (ie if this plugin is too weird to show a generic generated config example for), you can disable examples entirely with `examples: false` instead of disabling each one individually.

Author: I will go ahead and disable examples here

    - name: request_jq_program_options
      required: false
      datatype: record
      description: |
        Boolean option flags to modify the run behavior of the jq program run on the request body.
        - `compact_output`: Returns output in a compact form without additional spacing,
          and with each JSON object on a single line. Defaults to `true`. Set to `false` for "pretty" output.
        - `raw_output`: Outputs as raw strings, not JSON quoted. Default is `false`.
        - `join_output`: Similar to `raw_output` but does not output newline separators. Default is `false`.
        - `ascii_output`: jq usually outputs non-ASCII Unicode codepoints as UTF-8, even if the input specified

>            them as escape sequences (like "\u03bc"). Using this option, you can force jq to produce pure ASCII

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           them as escape sequences (like `\u03bc`). Using this option, you can force jq to produce pure ASCII
```

Author: will update

           output, replacing every non-ASCII character with the equivalent escape sequence. Default is `false`.
        - `sort_keys`: Outputs the fields of each object with the keys in sorted order. Default is `false`.
    - name: request_if_media_type
      required: false
      datatype: array of strings
      default: ["application/json"]
      description: |

>         A list of media type strings, which **must** be present in the `Content-Type` header for the request program to run.

Reviewer: Do all strings need to be present in the header or just one? The intro made it sound like one only, this description sounds like all.

Also applies to `response_if_media_type`.

Reviewer 2: Just one needs to match. That is, given a list of configured media types such as `["application/json", "text/plain"]`, the program will run only if the actual `Content-Type` header string contains one of those found in the list.

Also, I hope it's obvious but the `Content-Type` header here is either the request header or the response header, depending on the context.

Author: ok, will reword

    - name: response_jq_program
      required: semi
      datatype: string
      description: |
        The jq program to run on the response body. For example, `.[0] | { "X-Foo": .foo }`. 
        Either `request_jq_program` or `response_jq_plugin` **must** be included in configuration.
    - name: response_jq_program_options
      required: false
      datatype: record
      description: |
        Boolean option flags to modify the run behavior of the jq program run on the response body.
        - `compact_output`: Returns output in a compact form without additional spacing,
          and with each JSON object on a single line. Defaults to `true`. Set to `false` for "pretty" output.
        - `raw_output`: Outputs as raw strings, not JSON quoted. Default is `false`.
        - `join_output`: Similar to `raw_output` but does not output newline separators. Default is `false`.
        - `ascii_output`: jq usually outputs non-ASCII Unicode codepoints as UTF-8, even if the input specified

>            them as escape sequences (like "\u03bc"). Using this option, you can force jq to produce pure ASCII

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           them as escape sequences (like `\u03bc`). Using this option, you can force jq to produce pure ASCII
```

Author: k, will fix

           output, replacing every non-ASCII character with the equivalent escape sequence. Default is `false`.
        - `sort_keys`: Outputs the fields of each object with the keys in sorted order. Default is `false`.
    - name: response_if_media_type
      required: false
      datatype: array of strings
      default: ["application/json"]
      description: |
        A list of media type strings, which **must** be present in the `Content-Type` header for the response program to run.
    - name: response_if_status_code
      required: false
      datatype: array of integers
      default: [200]
      description: |

>         A list of HTTP response status codes which **must** be present for the response program to run.

Reviewer: Same comment as for media types: one of the codes must be present, correct? Not all (I don't even know how all would happen).

Reviewer 2: Yes, the user can configure multiple acceptable response status codes, and the program will only run if the actual response status code is found in that list.

Author: ok will reword

Reviewer 2: Still not sure this is quite right - the "list of HTTP response status codes" can't be present, as the response can only have one status. 

```suggestion
        A list of HTTP response status codes, one of which **must** match the response status code for the response program to run.
```
That's more accurate, if a little repetitive! ;)

    - name: request_jq_program_options
      required: false
      datatype: record
      description: |
        Boolean option flags to modify the run behavior of the jq program run on the request body.
        - `compact_output`: Returns output in a compact form without additional spacing,
          and with each JSON object on a single line. Defaults to `true`. Set to `false` for "pretty" output.
        - `raw_output`: Outputs as raw strings, not JSON quoted. Default is `false`.
        - `join_output`: Similar to `raw_output` but does not output newline separators. Default is `false`.
        - `ascii_output`: jq usually outputs non-ASCII Unicode codepoints as UTF-8, even if the input specified
           them as escape sequences (like `\u03bc`). Using this option, you can force jq to produce pure ASCII
           output, replacing every non-ASCII character with the equivalent escape sequence. Default is `false`.
        - `sort_keys`: Outputs the fields of each object with the keys in sorted order. Default is `false`.
    - name: request_if_media_type
      required: false
      datatype: array of strings
      default: ["application/json"]
      description: |

>         A list of media type strings. At least one media type on this list **must** be present in the
>         `Content-Type` request header for the program to run.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this is the best wording - the `Content-Type` header can only include one media type, so "at least" doesn't really make sense.

Concretely, the header may look like this: `Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8` where the "media type" is just the `text/plain` part, and there can be only one specified. The program will run if `text/plain` is found in the list, e.g: `["application/json", "text/plain"]`.

Perhaps something like...

```suggestion
        A list of media type strings. The media type found in the `Content-Type` request header **must** match one on this list for the program to run.
```

Author: k, will reword

        Boolean option flags to modify the run behavior of the jq program run on the response body.
        - `compact_output`: Returns output in a compact form without additional spacing,
          and with each JSON object on a single line. Defaults to `true`. Set to `false` for "pretty" output.
        - `raw_output`: Outputs as raw strings, not JSON quoted. Default is `false`.
        - `join_output`: Similar to `raw_output` but does not output newline separators. Default is `false`.
        - `ascii_output`: jq usually outputs non-ASCII Unicode codepoints as UTF-8, even if the input specified
           them as escape sequences (like `\u03bc`). Using this option, you can force jq to produce pure ASCII
           output, replacing every non-ASCII character with the equivalent escape sequence. Default is `false`.
        - `sort_keys`: Outputs the fields of each object with the keys in sorted order. Default is `false`.
    - name: response_if_media_type
      required: false
      datatype: array of strings
      default: ["application/json"]
      description: |
        A list of media type strings. At least one media type on this list **must** be present in the

>         `Content-Type` response header for the program to run.

Reviewer 2: As per request notes above...

Author: k, will reword

---
name: Kong jq
publisher: Kong Inc.
versions: 0.1.x
beta: true

> desc: Transform JSON objects included in API requests or responses using jq filters and programs.

Reviewer 2: I introduced the term `filter` in the original version to denote the combination of a `program + options + source + target + conditions`, as previously you can add an arbitrary number of these. It's no longer relevant in this simpler version.

```suggestion
desc: Transform JSON objects included in API requests or responses using jq programs.
```

Author: will fix

description: |

>     The Kong jq plugin enables arbitrary jq transformations on JSON objects included in API requests or responses. The source of the object can either be the request or response body, and the transformed result can either replace the body or be used to set HTTP headers.
> 
>     Multiple filters can be specified in the configuration. You can use these filters to set request headers from values present in the request body, and then rewrite the response body with a separate jq program.

Reviewer 2: This is no longer true. The transformed result now only affects the body - we had to drop the HTTP headers target as part of the simplification for technical reasons. Previously you could also add an arbitrary number of filters with different sources / targets, including headers. Now there are just two filters or "programs"; a request program which transforms the request body, and a response program which transforms the response body.

Here's what I wrote in the README for the simplified version, not sure if it's too much for a description field or not but it covers everything it can do. The last paragraph about buffering is perhaps important in complex setups, but most people probably won't need to worry about it.

```suggestion
    The Kong jq plugin enables arbitrary jq transformations on JSON objects included in API requests or responses.
    
    The configuration accepts two sets of options; one for the request and another for the response. In both cases a jq program string can be given, along with some jq option flags and a list of media types, one of which must be found in the `Content-Type` header in order for the jq program to run (defaults to `application/json`).

    In the response context, there is also the option to specify a list of status codes, one of which must match the response status code (defaults to `200`).

    Note that in the response context the entire body must be buffered in order to be processed. This also implies that the `Content-Length` header will be dropped if present, and the body transferred with chunked encoding.
```

Author: will update

        - `raw_output`: Outputs as raw strings, not JSON quoted. Default is `false`.
        - `join_output`: Similar to `raw_output` but does not output newline separators. Default is `false`.
        - `ascii_output`: jq usually outputs non-ASCII Unicode codepoints as UTF-8, even if the input specified
           them as escape sequences (like "\u03bc"). Using this option, you can force jq to produce pure ASCII
           output, replacing every non-ASCII character with the equivalent escape sequence. Default is `false`.
        - `sort_keys`: Outputs the fields of each object with the keys in sorted order. Default is `false`.
    - name: request_if_media_type
      required: false
      datatype: array of strings
      default: ["application/json"]
      description: |
        A list of media type strings, which must be present in the `Content-Type` header for the request program to run.
    - name: response_jq_program
      required: semi
      datatype: string
      description: |
        The jq program to run on the response body. For example, `.[0] | { "X-Foo": .foo }`. 

>         Either `request_jq_program` or `response_jq_plugin` must be included in configuration.

Reviewer 2: Minor style consistency; `must` is emphasised in the `request_jq_program` description above, but not here.

Author: ah, ok, will fix

---
name: Kong jq
publisher: Kong Inc.
versions: 0.1.x

> beta: true

Author: I have some questions regarding when this doc gets published. As of now, there is not an icon. I believe everyone is tied up with Kong Summit things, so it is unlikely that the icon will be ready by the v2.6 EE beta release - which I am assuming is when the v2.6 OSS GA release occurs (9/28). Once I receive approval from you and James Hurst on the content, I could publish the doc for the v2.6 EE beta release; however, I am not sure how you feel about it being published without a proper icon. My questions are the following: Is your expectation that this document be released with the v2.6 EE beta release 9/28 (v2.6 OSS GA)?  If so, perhaps, we should give it some kind of generic Kong/beta icon? If not, I can wait to merge the content until the v2.6 EE GA release - which means I should remove go ahead and remove the beta parameter.

> beta: true

Reviewer 3: I'm not yet ready to relinquish that we won't have an icon by beta release.  But if that is the case, I'd lean towards publishing with a generic icon.  We actually already have one of those: it's used on https://docs.konghq.com/hub/inspur/apig-response-transform/ and https://docs.konghq.com/hub/heroku/kong-app/ and https://docs.konghq.com/hub/justeat/kongverge/ for example

desc: Provides arbitrary jq transformations to a JSON object.
description: |
    Provides arbitrary jq transformations to a JSON object. The source of the object can either be the request or response body, and the transformed result can either replace the body or be used to set HTTP headers.

    Multiple filters can be specified in the configuration. You can use these filters to set request headers from values present in the request body, and then rewrite the response body with a separate jq program.

enterprise: true
type: plugin
categories:
 - transformations

kong_version_compatibility:
    enterprise_edition:
      compatible: 
        - 2.6.x

params:
  name: jq
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  yaml_examples: false
  k8s_examples: false
  konnect_examples: false

>   protocols: ["http"]

Author: k, will update

  dbless_compatible:
  config:
    - name: request_jq_program
      required: semi
      datatype: string
      description: |

>         The jq program to run on the request body. For example, `.[0] | { "X-Foo": .foo }`. 

Author: yep, will add

        Either `request_jq_program` or `response_jq_plugin` must be included in configuration.

>     - name: request_jq_options

Reviewer 3: It looks like the name of the parameter is request_jq_program_options. cc @pintsized or @bungle for confirmation

Author: yeah I was going on the readme, then looked at the schema but for the wrong branch - after switching to the master branch I see it has changed - will update

      required: false
      datatype: record
      description: |
        Boolean option flags to modify the run behavior of the jq program run on the request body.
        - `compact_output`: Returns output in a compact form without additional spacing,
          and with each JSON object on a single line. Defaults to `true`. Set to `false` for "pretty" output.
        - `raw_output`: Outputs as raw strings, not JSON quoted. Default is `false`.
        - `join_output`: Similar to `raw_output` but does not output newline separators. Default is `false`.
        - `ascii_output`: jq usually outputs non-ASCII Unicode codepoints as UTF-8, even if the input specified
           them as escape sequences (like "\u03bc"). Using this option, you can force jq to produce pure ASCII
           output, replacing every non-ASCII character with the equivalent escape sequence. Default is `false`.
        - `sort_keys`: Outputs the fields of each object with the keys in sorted order. Default is `false`.

>         For further explanations, see the [lua-resty-jq documentation](https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-jq#filter).

Author: sure, will remove

    - name: request_if_media_type
      required: false
      datatype: array of strings
      default: ["application/json"]
      description: |
        A list of media type strings, which must be present in the `Content-Type` header for the request program to run.
    - name: response_jq_program
      required: semi
      datatype: string
      description: |
        The jq program to run on the response body. For example, `.[0] | { "X-Foo": .foo }`. 
        Either `request_jq_program` or `response_jq_plugin` must be included in configuration.

>     - name: response_jq_options

Reviewer 3: It looks like the name of the parameter is `response_jq_program_options`.  cc @pintsized or @bungle for confirmation

Author: yeah I was going on the readme, then looked at the schema but for the wrong branch - after switching to the master branch I see it has changed - will update
